# Americans are fretting over their body odour _ Business

Business | Pits and bitsAmericans are fretting over their body odour They are covering themselves in new types of deodorantPhotograph: Leah Nash/New York Times/Redux/Eyevine May 23rd 2024|New YorkShareAfter three days in the great outdoors, gnawing anxiety sets in. The air may be fresh but the woman in the advert is not. The backs of her knees have begun to emit an unusual smell. Luckily for her fellow campers, she has packed a tube of Peach and Vanilla Blossom Whole Body Deodorant Cream, a fresh product launched in January by Secret, a personal-care brand.Americans have long had a particular aversion to stench. Last year they bought $6.6bn worth of deodorant, the equivalent of nearly $20 per person—more than in any other rich country, according to Euromonitor, a research firm. Lately companies like Secret have been encouraging them to hunt out odours from their feet to their “underboobs”. Google searches for “whole-body deodorant” shot up by 1,000% in the year to March (albeit from a low base).Explore moreUnited StatesThis article appeared in the Business section of the print edition under the headline “Pits and bits”Business May 25th 2024Can Nvidia be dethroned? Meet the startups vying for its crownAfrica Inc is ready to roarGlobal firms are tapping India’s workers like never beforeAmericans are fretting over their body odourWalmart’s latest product? Its customersThe Economist’s agony uncle returnsCan anyone save the world’s most important diamond company?From the May 25th 2024 editionDiscover stories from this section and more in the list of contentsExplore the editionShareReuse this contentMore from BusinessThe Economist’s agony uncle returnsPets, drugs and schedule send: another postbag for Max FlannelWalmart’s latest product? Its customersThe retail giant is selling advertisers access to its shoppersAfrica Inc is ready to roarIts businesses are expanding across the continent