# Spices have their own riveting, piquant history _ Culture

Culture | The spice of lifeSpices have their own riveting, piquant historyHow spycraft and cartography flourished in their wakePhotograph: Getty Images May 22nd 2024ShareTHEY LOOKED humble enough. One observer compared clove plants to laurel shrubs, while nutmeg, he noticed, grew on something resembling the pear tree. Despite their common appearance, in the 16th century these spices were special—and not just because, by a fluke of evolution, they grew only on a handful of islands in the Malay Archipelago, which came to be known as the Spice Islands. As Roger Crowley, a British maritime historian, explains in an engaging new look at seasoning’s long ago seasons, nutmeg and cloves would have effects far beyond the kitchen, kindling revolutions from mapmaking to spycraft.For centuries many were in doubt about the spices’ origins. Marco Polo, the famed Venetian explorer, thought cloves came from China and nutmeg from Java. Mr Crowley begins his story in 1511, when the Portuguese began muscling into the South-East Asian spice trade. Eager for profit, their Spanish and English competitors soon joined them. In 1553 a trio of ships left London on a journey to reach the Spice Islands via Russia and the Arctic. Their voyage ended in disaster, but their fervour is not hard to understand.This article appeared in the Culture section of the print edition under the headline “The spice of life”Culture May 25th 2024Meet the man causing cracks in the antiquities tradeThe hit series “Bridgerton” has set off a string-quartet boomSpices have their own riveting, piquant historyThe controversial cult of the host club in JapanFrom the May 25th 2024 editionDiscover stories from this section and more in the list of contentsExplore the editionShareReuse this contentMore from CultureFrom Zidane to Vinícius: the reinvention of Real MadridThe galácticos have become the pragmáticosWhy did Hollywood not want to fund “Megalopolis” and “Horizon”?Francis Ford Coppola and Kevin Costner paid for their passion projectsMeet the man causing cracks in the antiquities tradeMatthew Bogdanos employs unorthodox tactics to repatriate stolen art and antiquities